## Chapter 2: &nbsp;First steps.

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
<!-- **Table of Contents**  *generated with [DocToc](https://github.com/thlorenz/doctoc)*  -->

---

### 2.1 &nbsp;asdasd

The only good way to learn programming is by **doing**: trying out stuff, investigating, exploring, experimenting, making sure that one actually can do the things. And just implementing one’s own ideas, maybe wild ideas. I like that last part best.

Here at the start you get detailed guidance on how to *do* things. We’ll start by trying out the JavaScript hello-example from the first chapter, even if you’ve already done that on your own. Some variations follow.

But later on there will be progressively less and then no detailed how-to guidance for the *do*-ing. You are then expected to figure out things, because the most important and effective tool you have is **you**, your brain. And that includes both sides of that brain: both the right brain’s sense of aesthetic beauty, e.g. designing the perfect user interface, and the left brain’s analytical part that figures out how to make that design work so that it’s not just pretty cosmetics but actually a super-useful thing.

For example, at some point you may wonder, where to click or what to write in a command? That’s for you. You will **look** at what’s available to you and just apply what you’ve already learned and use resources such as command help-texts, documentation (on the net and local), plain googling, asking people in programming  forums, and in some cases you’ll obstinately do hard detective work into the very late hours&hellip;

Having good googling skills is important. You need to be able to sort out the wheat from the chaff in the search results, at a glance. Because while artificial intelligence can help and has a lot of knowledge, as of 2024 it still lacks common sense, and so there will be a lot of irrelevant results and a lot of low quality results, and you need to be able to mostly ignore them and possibly follow vague clues for several levels and dive right into the good helpful links. This ability comes with experience. By doing this many times.

### 2.2
